memory-bank/techContext.md, before:

# Technical Context - Go Excel Builder

## Technology Stack

### Core Technologies

#### Go Language
- **Version**: Go 1.21+
- **Rationale**: Modern Go features, generics support, improved performance
- **Key Features Used**:
  - Interfaces for abstraction
  - Goroutines for concurrent operations
  - Channels for communication
  - Context for cancellation
  - Generics for type safety (future)

#### Excelize v2
- **Version**: v2.8.0+
- **Purpose**: Core Excel file manipulation
- **Key Features**:
  - XLSX file creation and modification
  - Style and formatting support
  - Formula and chart capabilities
  - Cross-platform compatibility
- **Integration**: Wrapped by builder pattern for simplified API

### Development Dependencies

#### Testing Framework
```go
// Standard testing package
import "testing"

// Testify for assertions and mocking
github.com/stretchr/testify v1.8.4
├── assert    // Assertions
├── require   // Required assertions
├── mock      // Mocking framework
└── suite     // Test suites
#### Benchmarking Tools
```go
// Built-in benchmarking
import "testing"

// Memory profiling
import _ "net/http/pprof"

// Custom benchmark utilities
```

#### Data Processing Libraries
```go
// JSON processing
import "encoding/json"

// CSV processing
import "encoding/csv"

// String manipulation
import "strings"
import "sort"

// Reflection for dynamic data handling
import "reflect"
```

### Import/Export System

#### Core Components
- **ImportHelper**: Handles data import from CSV and JSON formats
- **ExportHelper**: Manages data export to CSV and JSON formats
- **Data Processing**: Nested object flattening and column ordering
- **Error Handling**: Comprehensive validation and error reporting

#### Key Features
- CSV import/export with configurable delimiters and headers
- JSON import/export with automatic nested object flattening
- Alphabetical column ordering for consistent output
- Sheet naming consistency across operations
- Round-trip data integrity validation

#### Performance Considerations
- Memory-efficient streaming for large datasets
- Optimized reflection usage for dynamic data handling
- Proper resource cleanup and error handling
```

#### Code Quality Tools
```bash
# Linting
golangci-lint v1.54.0
├── govet      # Go vet
├── golint     # Go lint
├── gofmt      # Go format
├── ineffassign # Ineffectual assignments
├── misspell   # Misspellings
└── deadcode   # Dead code detection

# Security scanning
gosec v2.18.0

# Dependency checking
govulncheck latest
```

## Implementation Status

### Current State: Core Implementation ✅
- [x] **Technology Stack**: Implemented and working
- [x] **Dependencies**: All dependencies integrated successfully
- [x] **Development Environment**: Fully functional setup
- [x] **Build System**: Working Makefile with Go tools
- [x] **Testing Strategy**: TDD with 32 comprehensive tests
- [x] **Go Module**: Initialized with proper dependencies
- [x] **Project Structure**: Complete directory layout
- [x] **Code Quality**: Linting and formatting configured

### Next Phase: Advanced Features 🚧
- [ ] **Performance Optimization**: Benchmarking and profiling
- [ ] **Memory Management**: Flyweight pattern implementation
- [ ] **CI/CD**: Setup GitHub Actions pipeline
- [ ] **Documentation**: Enhanced API documentation
- [ ] **Chart Libraries**: Integration for chart support

## Development Setup

### Prerequisites
```bash
# Go installation
go version go1.21.0 darwin/amd64

# Git for version control
git version 2.39.0

# Make for build automation
make --version
```

### Project Structure (Implemented)
```
go-excelbuilder/
├── pkg/
│   └── excelbuilder/        # Main package ✅
│       ├── builder.go       # Core builder ✅
│       ├── config.go        # Configuration ✅
│       ├── errors.go        # Custom errors ✅
│       └── styles.go        # Style management ✅
├── tests/                   # Test files ✅
│   ├── builder_test.go      # Core builder tests ✅
│   ├── config_test.go       # Configuration tests ✅
│   ├── error_test.go        # Error handling tests ✅
│   ├── integration_test.go  # Integration tests ✅
│   └── style_test.go        # Style tests ✅
├── examples/                # Usage examples ✅
│   └── basic/
│       └── main.go          # Working example ✅
├── memory-bank/             # Documentation ✅
├── go.mod                   # Go module ✅
├── go.sum                   # Dependency checksums ✅
└── README.md               # Complete documentation ✅
```

### Future Project Structure
```
go-excelbuilder/
├── .github/
│   ├── workflows/
│   │   ├── ci.yml           # Continuous Integration
│   │   ├── release.yml      # Release automation
│   │   └── security.yml     # Security scanning
│   └── ISSUE_TEMPLATE/      # Issue templates
├── cmd/
│   └── examples/            # Example applications
├── pkg/
│   └── excelbuilder/        # Main package
├── internal/
│   ├── testutils/           # Test utilities
│   └── benchmarks/          # Benchmark utilities
├── tests/
│   ├── unit/                # Unit tests
│   ├── integration/         # Integration tests
│   └── performance/         # Performance tests
├── docs/
│   ├── api/                 # API documentation
│   ├── examples/            # Usage examples
│   └── design/              # Design documents
├── scripts/
│   ├── build.sh             # Build scripts
│   ├── test.sh              # Test scripts
│   └── benchmark.sh         # Benchmark scripts
├── .gitignore
├── .golangci.yml            # Linter configuration
├── go.mod
├── go.sum
├── Makefile
└── README.md
```

### Build Configuration

#### go.mod (Implemented)
```go
module github.com/kien-hoangtrung/go-excelbuilder

go 1.21

require (
    github.com/xuri/excelize/v2 v2.8.1
)

require (
    github.com/mohae/deepcopy v0.0.0-20170929034955-c48cc78d4826 // indirect
    github.com/richardlehane/mscfb v1.0.4 // indirect
    github.com/richardlehane/msoleps v1.0.3 // indirect
    github.com/xuri/efp v0.0.0-20231025114914-d1ff6096ae53 // indirect
    github.com/xuri/nfp v0.0.0-20230919160717-d98342af3f05 // indirect
    golang.org/x/crypto v0.17.0 // indirect
    golang.org/x/net v0.19.0 // indirect
    golang.org/x/text v0.14.0 // indirect
)
```

#### Future go.mod with Development Dependencies
```go
module github.com/kien-hoangtrung/go-excelbuilder

go 1.21

require (
    github.com/xuri/excelize/v2 v2.8.1
)

require (
    // Excelize dependencies
    github.com/mohae/deepcopy v0.0.0-20170929034955-c48cc78d4826
    github.com/richardlehane/mscfb v1.0.4
    github.com/richardlehane/msoleps v1.0.3
    github.com/xuri/efp v0.0.0-20231025114914-d1ff6096ae53
    github.com/xuri/nfp v0.0.0-20230919160717-d98342af3f05
    golang.org/x/crypto v0.17.0
    golang.org/x/net v0.19.0
    golang.org/x/text v0.14.0
)

// Development dependencies
require (
    github.com/stretchr/testify v1.8.4
)
```

#### Makefile
```makefile
.PHONY: build test lint benchmark clean

# Build configuration
GO_VERSION := 1.21
BINARY_NAME := excelbuilder
PACKAGE := github.com/username/go-excelbuilder

# Build targets
build:
	go build -v ./...

test:
	go test -v -race -coverprofile=coverage.out ./...

lint:
	golangci-lint run

benchmark:
	go test -bench=. -benchmem ./...

clean:
	go clean
	rm -f coverage.out

# Development targets
dev-setup:
	go install github.com/golangci/golangci-lint/cmd/golangci-lint@latest
	go mod download

test-coverage:
	go test -coverprofile=coverage.out ./...
	go tool cover -html=coverage.out

# Release targets
release:
	goreleaser release --rm-dist
```

## Technical Constraints

### Performance Requirements
- **Memory Usage**: < 50MB for 100K rows
- **Processing Speed**: < 100ms for basic operations
- **Concurrent Safety**: Thread-safe operations
- **File Size**: Support files up to 1GB

### Compatibility Requirements
- **Go Versions**: 1.21+
- **Operating Systems**: Windows, macOS, Linux
- **Architectures**: amd64, arm64
- **Excel Versions**: Excel 2007+ (XLSX format)

### Security Constraints
- **No External Network Calls**: Offline operation only
- **Input Validation**: All user inputs validated
- **Memory Safety**: No buffer overflows
- **Dependency Security**: Regular security scanning

## Development Workflow

### Local Development
```bash
# Setup
git clone <repository>
cd go-excelbuilder
make dev-setup

# Development cycle
make test           # Run tests
make lint           # Check code quality
make benchmark      # Performance testing
make build          # Build package
```

### Testing Strategy
```bash
# Unit tests
go test ./pkg/excelbuilder/...

# Integration tests
go test ./tests/integration/...

# Performance tests
go test -bench=. ./tests/performance/...

# Coverage report
make test-coverage
```

### CI/CD Pipeline
```yaml
# .github/workflows/ci.yml
name: CI
on: [push, pull_request]

jobs:
  test:
    strategy:
      matrix:
        go-version: [1.21, 1.22]
        os: [ubuntu-latest, windows-latest, macos-latest]
    
    steps:
    - uses: actions/checkout@v3
    - uses: actions/setup-go@v3
      with:
        go-version: ${{ matrix.go-version }}
    
    - name: Run tests
      run: make test
    
    - name: Run linter
      run: make lint
    
    - name: Run benchmarks
      run: make benchmark
```

## Deployment & Distribution

### Package Distribution
- **Go Modules**: Primary distribution method
- **GitHub Releases**: Tagged releases with binaries
- **Documentation**: pkg.go.dev integration
- **Examples**: Comprehensive example repository

### Versioning Strategy
- **Semantic Versioning**: MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH
- **API Compatibility**: Backward compatibility within major versions
- **Deprecation Policy**: 2 minor versions notice
- **Release Cadence**: Monthly minor releases, quarterly major reviews

## Monitoring & Observability

### Performance Monitoring
```go
// Built-in profiling support
import _ "net/http/pprof"

// Custom metrics
type Metrics struct {
    StyleCacheHits   int64
    StyleCacheMisses int64
    MemoryUsage      int64
    ProcessingTime   time.Duration
}
```

### Logging Strategy
```go
// Structured logging interface
type Logger interface {
    Debug(msg string, fields ...Field)
    Info(msg string, fields ...Field)
    Warn(msg string, fields ...Field)
    Error(msg string, fields ...Field)
}

// Default: no-op logger
// Optional: configurable logger injection
```

### Error Tracking
```go
// Custom error types with context
type ExcelBuilderError struct {
    Op        string    // Operation
    Err       error     // Underlying error
    Code      ErrorCode // Error classification
    Timestamp time.Time // When error occurred
    Context   map[string]interface{} // Additional context
}
```

## Future Technical Considerations

### Scalability Improvements
- **Streaming API**: For very large files
- **Parallel Processing**: Multi-core utilization
- **Memory Pooling**: Object reuse for high-frequency operations
- **Compression**: Optional compression for large datasets

### Integration Possibilities
- **Database Drivers**: Direct database to Excel export
- **Web Frameworks**: HTTP handlers for Excel generation
- **CLI Tools**: Command-line Excel generation utilities
- **Cloud Services**: Serverless function integration

### Technology Evolution
- **Go Generics**: Enhanced type safety
- **WebAssembly**: Browser-based Excel generation
- **Cloud Native**: Kubernetes operator for Excel services
- **AI Integration**: Smart formatting and layout suggestions

Commit message:

feat: add advanced layout management

memory-bank/techContext.md, after:

# Technical Context - Go Excel Builder

## Technology Stack

### Core Technologies

#### Go Language
- **Version**: Go 1.21+
- **Rationale**: Modern Go features, generics support, improved performance
- **Key Features Used**:
  - Interfaces for abstraction
  - Goroutines for concurrent operations
  - Channels for communication
  - Context for cancellation
  - Generics for type safety (future)

#### Excelize v2
- **Version**: v2.8.0+
- **Purpose**: Core Excel file manipulation
- **Key Features**:
  - XLSX file creation and modification
  - Style and formatting support
  - Formula and chart capabilities
  - Cross-platform compatibility
- **Integration**: Wrapped by builder pattern for simplified API

### Development Dependencies

#### Testing Framework
```go
// Standard testing package
import "testing"

// Testify for assertions and mocking
github.com/stretchr/testify v1.8.4
├── assert    // Assertions
├── require   // Required assertions
├── mock      // Mocking framework
└── suite     // Test suites
#### Benchmarking Tools
```go
// Built-in benchmarking
import "testing"

// Memory profiling
import _ "net/http/pprof"

// Custom benchmark utilities
```

#### Data Processing Libraries
```go
// JSON processing
import "encoding/json"

// CSV processing
import "encoding/csv"

// String manipulation
import "strings"
import "sort"

// Reflection for dynamic data handling
import "reflect"
```

### Import/Export System

#### Core Components
- **ImportHelper**: Handles data import from CSV and JSON formats
- **ExportHelper**: Manages data export to CSV and JSON formats
- **Data Processing**: Nested object flattening and column ordering
- **Error Handling**: Comprehensive validation and error reporting

#### Key Features
- CSV import/export with configurable delimiters and headers
- JSON import/export with automatic nested object flattening
- Alphabetical column ordering for consistent output
- Sheet naming consistency across operations
- Round-trip data integrity validation

#### Performance Considerations
- Memory-efficient streaming for large datasets
- Optimized reflection usage for dynamic data handling
- Proper resource cleanup and error handling

### Advanced Layout Management System

#### Core Components
- **AdvancedLayoutManager**: Main interface for layout operations
- **Layout Data Structures**: GroupingConfig, PaneConfig, LayoutRange, AutoFitConfig
- **Integration Layer**: Seamless integration with SheetBuilder
- **Validation System**: Comprehensive input validation and error handling

#### Key Features
- Column and row grouping with outline levels (1-7)
- Freeze and split panes for enhanced navigation
- Auto-fit columns with configurable ranges
- Custom column width and row height setting
- Hide/show operations for columns and rows
- Fluent API with method chaining support

#### Technical Implementation
- Direct integration with excelize library for Excel operations
- Comprehensive input validation before excelize calls
- Error handling with nil returns for invalid operations
- Range parsing and validation for Excel compatibility
- Memory-efficient operations without unnecessary object creation
```

#### Code Quality Tools
```bash
# Linting
golangci-lint v1.54.0
├── govet      # Go vet
├── golint     # Go lint
├── gofmt      # Go format
├── ineffassign # Ineffectual assignments
├── misspell   # Misspellings
└── deadcode   # Dead code detection

# Security scanning
gosec v2.18.0

# Dependency checking
govulncheck latest
```

## Implementation Status

### Current State: Core Implementation ✅
- [x] **Technology Stack**: Implemented and working
- [x] **Dependencies**: All dependencies integrated successfully
- [x] **Development Environment**: Fully functional setup
- [x] **Build System**: Working Makefile with Go tools
- [x] **Testing Strategy**: TDD with 32 comprehensive tests
- [x] **Go Module**: Initialized with proper dependencies
- [x] **Project Structure**: Complete directory layout
- [x] **Code Quality**: Linting and formatting configured

### Next Phase: Advanced Features 🚧
- [ ] **Performance Optimization**: Benchmarking and profiling
- [ ] **Memory Management**: Flyweight pattern implementation
- [ ] **CI/CD**: Setup GitHub Actions pipeline
- [ ] **Documentation**: Enhanced API documentation
- [ ] **Chart Libraries**: Integration for chart support

## Development Setup

### Prerequisites
```bash
# Go installation
go version go1.21.0 darwin/amd64

# Git for version control
git version 2.39.0

# Make for build automation
make --version
```

### Project Structure (Implemented)
```
go-excelbuilder/
├── pkg/
│   └── excelbuilder/        # Main package ✅
│       ├── builder.go       # Core builder ✅
│       ├── config.go        # Configuration ✅
│       ├── errors.go        # Custom errors ✅
│       └── styles.go        # Style management ✅
├── tests/                   # Test files ✅
│   ├── builder_test.go      # Core builder tests ✅
│   ├── config_test.go       # Configuration tests ✅
│   ├── error_test.go        # Error handling tests ✅
│   ├── integration_test.go  # Integration tests ✅
│   └── style_test.go        # Style tests ✅
├── examples/                # Usage examples ✅
│   └── basic/
│       └── main.go          # Working example ✅
├── memory-bank/             # Documentation ✅
├── go.mod                   # Go module ✅
├── go.sum                   # Dependency checksums ✅
└── README.md               # Complete documentation ✅
```

### Future Project Structure
```
go-excelbuilder/
├── .github/
│   ├── workflows/
│   │   ├── ci.yml           # Continuous Integration
│   │   ├── release.yml      # Release automation
│   │   └── security.yml     # Security scanning
│   └── ISSUE_TEMPLATE/      # Issue templates
├── cmd/
│   └── examples/            # Example applications
├── pkg/
│   └── excelbuilder/        # Main package
├── internal/
│   ├── testutils/           # Test utilities
│   └── benchmarks/          # Benchmark utilities
├── tests/
│   ├── unit/                # Unit tests
│   ├── integration/         # Integration tests
│   └── performance/         # Performance tests
├── docs/
│   ├── api/                 # API documentation
│   ├── examples/            # Usage examples
│   └── design/              # Design documents
├── scripts/
│   ├── build.sh             # Build scripts
│   ├── test.sh              # Test scripts
│   └── benchmark.sh         # Benchmark scripts
├── .gitignore
├── .golangci.yml            # Linter configuration
├── go.mod
├── go.sum
├── Makefile
└── README.md
```

### Build Configuration

#### go.mod (Implemented)
```go
module github.com/kien-hoangtrung/go-excelbuilder

go 1.21

require (
    github.com/xuri/excelize/v2 v2.8.1
)

require (
    github.com/mohae/deepcopy v0.0.0-20170929034955-c48cc78d4826 // indirect
    github.com/richardlehane/mscfb v1.0.4 // indirect
    github.com/richardlehane/msoleps v1.0.3 // indirect
    github.com/xuri/efp v0.0.0-20231025114914-d1ff6096ae53 // indirect
    github.com/xuri/nfp v0.0.0-20230919160717-d98342af3f05 // indirect
    golang.org/x/crypto v0.17.0 // indirect
    golang.org/x/net v0.19.0 // indirect
    golang.org/x/text v0.14.0 // indirect
)
```

#### Future go.mod with Development Dependencies
```go
module github.com/kien-hoangtrung/go-excelbuilder

go 1.21

require (
    github.com/xuri/excelize/v2 v2.8.1
)

require (
    // Excelize dependencies
    github.com/mohae/deepcopy v0.0.0-20170929034955-c48cc78d4826
    github.com/richardlehane/mscfb v1.0.4
    github.com/richardlehane/msoleps v1.0.3
    github.com/xuri/efp v0.0.0-20231025114914-d1ff6096ae53
    github.com/xuri/nfp v0.0.0-20230919160717-d98342af3f05
    golang.org/x/crypto v0.17.0
    golang.org/x/net v0.19.0
    golang.org/x/text v0.14.0
)

// Development dependencies
require (
    github.com/stretchr/testify v1.8.4
)
```

#### Makefile
```makefile
.PHONY: build test lint benchmark clean

# Build configuration
GO_VERSION := 1.21
BINARY_NAME := excelbuilder
PACKAGE := github.com/username/go-excelbuilder

# Build targets
build:
	go build -v ./...

test:
	go test -v -race -coverprofile=coverage.out ./...

lint:
	golangci-lint run

benchmark:
	go test -bench=. -benchmem ./...

clean:
	go clean
	rm -f coverage.out

# Development targets
dev-setup:
	go install github.com/golangci/golangci-lint/cmd/golangci-lint@latest
	go mod download

test-coverage:
	go test -coverprofile=coverage.out ./...
	go tool cover -html=coverage.out

# Release targets
release:
	goreleaser release --rm-dist
```

## Technical Constraints

### Performance Requirements
- **Memory Usage**: < 50MB for 100K rows
- **Processing Speed**: < 100ms for basic operations
- **Concurrent Safety**: Thread-safe operations
- **File Size**: Support files up to 1GB

### Compatibility Requirements
- **Go Versions**: 1.21+
- **Operating Systems**: Windows, macOS, Linux
- **Architectures**: amd64, arm64
- **Excel Versions**: Excel 2007+ (XLSX format)

### Security Constraints
- **No External Network Calls**: Offline operation only
- **Input Validation**: All user inputs validated
- **Memory Safety**: No buffer overflows
- **Dependency Security**: Regular security scanning

## Development Workflow

### Local Development
```bash
# Setup
git clone <repository>
cd go-excelbuilder
make dev-setup

# Development cycle
make test           # Run tests
make lint           # Check code quality
make benchmark      # Performance testing
make build          # Build package
```

### Testing Strategy
```bash
# Unit tests
go test ./pkg/excelbuilder/...

# Integration tests
go test ./tests/integration/...

# Performance tests
go test -bench=. ./tests/performance/...

# Coverage report
make test-coverage
```

### CI/CD Pipeline
```yaml
# .github/workflows/ci.yml
name: CI
on: [push, pull_request]

jobs:
  test:
    strategy:
      matrix:
        go-version: [1.21, 1.22]
        os: [ubuntu-latest, windows-latest, macos-latest]
    
    steps:
    - uses: actions/checkout@v3
    - uses: actions/setup-go@v3
      with:
        go-version: ${{ matrix.go-version }}
    
    - name: Run tests
      run: make test
    
    - name: Run linter
      run: make lint
    
    - name: Run benchmarks
      run: make benchmark
```

## Deployment & Distribution

### Package Distribution
- **Go Modules**: Primary distribution method
- **GitHub Releases**: Tagged releases with binaries
- **Documentation**: pkg.go.dev integration
- **Examples**: Comprehensive example repository

### Versioning Strategy
- **Semantic Versioning**: MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH
- **API Compatibility**: Backward compatibility within major versions
- **Deprecation Policy**: 2 minor versions notice
- **Release Cadence**: Monthly minor releases, quarterly major reviews

## Monitoring & Observability

### Performance Monitoring
```go
// Built-in profiling support
import _ "net/http/pprof"

// Custom metrics
type Metrics struct {
    StyleCacheHits   int64
    StyleCacheMisses int64
    MemoryUsage      int64
    ProcessingTime   time.Duration
}
```

### Logging Strategy
```go
// Structured logging interface
type Logger interface {
    Debug(msg string, fields ...Field)
    Info(msg string, fields ...Field)
    Warn(msg string, fields ...Field)
    Error(msg string, fields ...Field)
}

// Default: no-op logger
// Optional: configurable logger injection
```

### Error Tracking
```go
// Custom error types with context
type ExcelBuilderError struct {
    Op        string    // Operation
    Err       error     // Underlying error
    Code      ErrorCode // Error classification
    Timestamp time.Time // When error occurred
    Context   map[string]interface{} // Additional context
}
```

## Future Technical Considerations

### Scalability Improvements
- **Streaming API**: For very large files
- **Parallel Processing**: Multi-core utilization
- **Memory Pooling**: Object reuse for high-frequency operations
- **Compression**: Optional compression for large datasets

### Integration Possibilities
- **Database Drivers**: Direct database to Excel export
- **Web Frameworks**: HTTP handlers for Excel generation
- **CLI Tools**: Command-line Excel generation utilities
- **Cloud Services**: Serverless function integration

### Technology Evolution
- **Go Generics**: Enhanced type safety
- **WebAssembly**: Browser-based Excel generation
- **Cloud Native**: Kubernetes operator for Excel services
- **AI Integration**: Smart formatting and layout suggestions
